{---
title = "Styx ${version} released";
version = "0.5.0";
release = "v${version}";
---}


Highlights:

* New theme: generic-templates. The generic-templates theme provide a template framework and basic templates for common components.
* Showcase and Hyde themes have been ported to use generic-templates.
* Theme configuration interface can be typed, and site configuration is type-checked.
* `styx-themes` full documentation.
* Themes metadata.
* Interactive debugging with `nix-repl.`
* simpler and shorter `site.nix`
* Themes can provide function libraries.
* Content timestamps support time.

Breaking Changes:

- Many, among others:
  - `site.nix` was greatly refactored.
  - Themes `theme.nix` was removed, its functionality is divided in two files, `conf.nix` and `meta.nix`. `conf.nix` for configuration interface and `meta.nix` for theme metadata.
  - Themes `meta.nix` file **must** be present and **must** declare a `id` attribute specifying the theme identifier.
  - `lib.pages.setDefaultLayout` was removed (default pages values can be set with the `default` argument of `lib.generation.pagesToList`).
  - all occurences of `href` in function names / parameters and template variables has been replaced with `path`, pages `path` attribute must start with a `/`.

Upgrading:

This release brings many incompatible changes that requires to refactor `site.nix` to upgrade.  
Changes involve, among others, the init section of `site.nix`, `site.nix` returning a set instead of a `generateSite` call and `href` occurrences replaced by `path` (`path` attributes must start with a `/`).

---

Thoughts:

At the moment of writing, styx 0.5.0 is only available in the `nixpkgs-unstable` channel.  
If you are on a different channel and want to test / install styx 0.5.0, use the following command:

Testing with nix-shell:

```
$ nix-shell -p styx -I nixpkgs=https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs-channels/archive/nixpkgs-unstable.tar.gz
```

Installing:

```
$ nix-env -A styx -I nixpkgs=https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs-channels/archive/nixpkgs-unstable.tar.gz
```

Note that the `build`, `preview`, `live`, `serve` and `deploy` commands require system active `nixpkgs` to provide the same version of styx as the one used, 0.5.0.  
For these commands `-I nixpkgs=...` can also be used to set the version of `nixpkgs` to use, for example:

```
$ styx preview -I nixpkgs=https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs-channels/archive/nixpkgs-unstable.tar.gz
```

---

Learn more in the {{ with meta; templates.tag.ilink { to = data.doc."{{ release }}" + "index.html"; content = "Styx {{ version }} Documentation"; } }},
{{ with meta; templates.tag.ilink { to = data.doc."{{ release }}" + "index.html#{{ release }}"; content = "release notes"; } }}.

Contribute to Styx via [GitHub repository](https://github.com/styx-static/styx/).

Problems and bugs should be reported to the [issue tracker](https://github.com/styx-static/styx/issues).

